AWS Textract is a machine learning tool that extracts data from scanned documents. Among the documents generated by Textract we can find a JSON file containing information (coordinates in the file, text, accuracy …) about the data contained in the input document fed to Textract.

In many cases, the need to perform further analysis on this data might arise. For this purpose, I have written this script in Python which crops the fields in the document containing a key word that we are looking for.

The script in question, when given a key word ("Rome" for example), the path of a pdf document, and the JSON file (generated by Amazon Textract), will crop the fields in the pdf containing the key word.

To use this script, the following syntax should be applied :

Syntax : crop.py  keyword  PDFpath  JSONpath

    Parameters :

        Keyword : it is a string, it represents the word we are interested in cropping in the document.
        PDFpath : it is a string, it represents the path of the PDF file. While using windows OS, please use / instead of \ for the path (will be fixed later).
        JSONpath : it is a string, it represents the path of the JSON file. While using windows OS, please use / instead of \ for the path (will be fixed later).

 

For example, if we are looking to crop the fields containing the key word “Rome”, we can use :

python crop.py “Rome” “./document.pdf” “./aws_output.json”

and the script will generate multiple pdf documents containing each a crop of the field containing “Rome”, in the case where the word "Rome" exists in the document and has been detected by Textract. The script also generates the field below the word “Rome”.

Work is still in progress to detect the whole neighborhood of the key word in question.
